Revamp RPC admin guide (#1392)
stellar/stellar-docs: docs/data/rpc/admin-guide/configuring.mdx

---
title: Configuring
sidebar_position: 30
---

For production, we recommend running Stellar RPC with a [TOML](https://toml.io/en/) configuration file rather than CLI flags. This is similar to creating a configuration file for Stellar-Core as we did previously. For example, using [our docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/stellar/stellar-rpc):

```bash
docker run -p 8001:8001 -p 8000:8000 \
-v <CONFIG_FOLDER>:/config stellar/stellar-rpc \
--config-path <RPC_CONFIG_FILENAME>

> ```

Author: I have added a running page

REQUEST_BACKLOG_SEND_TRANSACTION_QUEUE_LIMIT = 500

# Maximum number of outstanding SimulateTransaction requests
REQUEST_BACKLOG_SIMULATE_TRANSACTION_QUEUE_LIMIT = 100

# The request execution warning threshold is the predetermined maximum duration
# of time that a request can take to be processed before a warning would be
# generated
REQUEST_EXECUTION_WARNING_THRESHOLD = "5s"

# configures soroban inclusion fee stats retention window expressed in number of
# ledgers
SOROBAN_FEE_STATS_RETENTION_WINDOW = 50

# HTTP port for Captive Core to listen on (0 disables the HTTP server)
STELLAR_CAPTIVE_CORE_HTTP_PORT = 11626

# path to stellar core binary
STELLAR_CORE_BINARY_PATH = "/usr/bin/stellar-core"

# Timeout used when submitting requests to stellar-core
STELLAR_CORE_TIMEOUT = "2s"

# URL used to query Stellar Core (local captive core by default)
# STELLAR_CORE_URL = ""

# Enable strict toml configuration file parsing. This will prevent unknown
# fields in the config toml from being parsed.
# STRICT = false

```

Note that the above generated configuration contains the default values and you need to substitute them with proper values to run the image.

### Build From Source

> Instructions for building Stellar RPC from source can be found [here](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-rpc/blob/main/cmd/stellar-rpc/README.md).

Reviewer: This belongs on the installation page, not configuring page

## Use your Local RPC Instance

You can configure Stellar CLI to use your local remote RPC endpoint:

```bash
stellar network add --global local \
    --rpc-url http://localhost:8000 \
    --network-passphrase 'Standalone Network ; February 2017'
```

And fund your accounts/identities with the Friendbot:

```bash
curl "http://localhost:8000/friendbot/?addr=$(stellar keys address alice)"
```

See the tip above about command expansion (that's the note about `$(...)`) if you're not using a bash-based shell.

:::caution

When interacting with the network in production you should run your own stellar-rpc or use a third-party infrastructure provider.

> :::

Reviewer: This is repetitive with the local development page, it should be deleted

## Verify the RPC Instance

After installation, it will be worthwhile to verify the installation of Stellar RPC is healthy. There are two methods:

1. Access the health status endpoint of the JSON RPC service using an HTTP client

> 2. Use our pre-built [System Test Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/stellar/system-test/tags) as a tool to run a set of live tests against Stellar RPC

Author: I think it works fine as an outline of the sections

### Health Status Endpoint

If you send a JSON RPC HTTP request to your running instance of Stellar RPC:

```bash
curl --location 'http://localhost:8000' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
"jsonrpc":"2.0",
"id":2,
"method":"getHealth"
}'
```

You should get back an HTTP 200 status response if the instance is healthy:

```json
{
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "id": 2,
  "result": {
    "status": "healthy"
  }
}
```

### System Test Docker Image

This test will compile, deploy, and invoke example contracts to the network to which your RPC instance is connected to. Here is an example for verifying your instance if it is connected to Testnet:

```bash

> docker run --rm -t --name e2e_test \
> docker.io/stellar/system-test:soroban-v20 \
> --VerboseOutput true \
> --TargetNetworkRPCURL <your rpc url here> \
> --TargetNetworkPassphrase "Test SDF Network ; September 2015" \
> --TargetNetworkTestAccountSecret <your test account StrKey encoded key here > \
> --TargetNetworkTestAccountPublic <your test account StrKey encoded pubkey here> \
> --SorobanExamplesGitHash v22.0.1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# checkout https://github.com/stellar/system-test repo first, and build the image locally with release component versions
system-test$ make  \
  CORE_IMAGE=stellar/stellar-core:22 \
  CORE_IMAGE_BIN_PATH=/usr/bin/stellar-core \
  SOROBAN_RPC_GIT_REF=https://github.com/stellar/soroban-rpc.git#v22.1.2 \     
  SOROBAN_CLI_GIT_REF=https://github.com/stellar/soroban-cli.git#v22.2.0 \
  RS_XDR_GIT_REF=v22.1.0 \
  JS_STELLAR_SDK_NPM_VERSION=13.1.0 \
  build

# run the local system test image
$ docker run --rm -t --name e2e_test \
stellar/system-test:dev \
--VerboseOutput true \
--TargetNetworkRPCURL <your rpc url here> \
--TargetNetworkPassphrase "Test SDF Network ; September 2015" \
--TargetNetworkTestAccountSecret <your test account StrKey encoded key here > \
--TargetNetworkTestAccountPublic <your test account StrKey encoded pubkey here> \
--SorobanExamplesGitHash v22.0.1
```

unfortunately, the availability of pre-built system-test images for the versioned tags referred to here hasn't been automated yet, the last tags pushed were over a year ago. 

This can recommend obtaining the system-test image by building it locally instead as suggestion shows. 
This would require the user to know the major component release versions(core, rpc, cli, js-sdk) as the suggestion highlights.

```

Make sure you configure the system test correctly:

> - Use a published [system test tag](https://hub.docker.com/r/stellar/system-test/tags) that aligns with the deployed Stellar RPC release version. For each release, there will be two tags published for different CPU architectures. Make sure to use the tag that matches your host machine's CPU architecture:
> - `docker.io/stellar/system-test:<release name>` for machines with AMD/Intel-based CPUs
> - `docker.io/stellar/system-test:<release name>-arm64` for machines with ARM CPUs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

per the [suggestion](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-docs/pull/1392/files#r1990055398) to build system test locally, can delete lines 320-322 as they refer to using pre-built images which isn't viable for now.

- Set `--TargetNetworkRPCURL` to your RPC HTTP URL
- Set `--TargetNetworkPassphrase` to the same network your RPC instance is connected to:
- `"Test SDF Network ; September 2015"` for Testnet
- `"Test SDF Future Network ; October 2022"` for Futurenet
- Set `--SorobanExamplesGitHash` to the corresponding release tag on the [Soroban Examples repo](https://github.com/stellar/soroban-examples/tags)
- Create and fund an account to be used for test purposes on the same network your RPC instance is connected to
- This account needs a small XLM balance to submit Soroban transactions
- Tests can be run repeatedly with the same account
- Set `--TargetNetworkTestAccountPublic` to the `StrKey` encoded public key of the account

> - Set `--TargetNetworkTestAccountSecret` to the `StrKey` encoded secret for the account

Reviewer: This probably makes more sense under "Monitoring"
